I remember hearing in an interview with
an ex evangelical Christian and he
talked about how the worst part of his
faith (as he formally had it as he was
raised in the church and up to a certain
age in his life... I think up to about middle age)
the worst part was the feeling that if
he did not preach to people they were
going to go to hell after they died.
That when he sat down next to a stranger
on an airplane he felt pressure, he felt
real pressure, to share the gospel with
them or to talk to them enough to figure
out, are they already Cristian, or where
are they at,
because from his perspective that
conversation could be the difference
between an eternity in hell and whatever.
This video is about veganism.
In case you hadn't guessed.  There's a video up from a channel called
"vegan artichoke".  For most of you this will
be the first time you heard of this channel.
She gets fewer than a hundred views on
most of her videos. Just lately she's got
two videos that are of a more profound
character that I'm here appreciating. One is called "Veganism is
emotionally exhausting" (that's what I'm responding to).  Another one is titled, "Are
problematic vegans helping or hurting
the vegan movement?". So those are two videos I
recommend from her channel. A lot of
other videos are just talking about her
groceries or product product reviews
or what-have-you; that's of no interest to me but,
hey, some of you guys'll love it.  So, in her video, "veganism is emotionally exhausting", she
talks about the mixed feelings she has
about what she calls vegan activism in
dealing with questions from people who
are sometimes, hostile sometimes
demeaning, sometimes insincere, and
challenging her veganism. Also,
interestingly, she talks about her
relations with other vegans and how
exhausting that is for her, and how she feels burned out, and what-have-you.
So, it's worth listening to on the
whole.  It gives me
an impetus to here provide a bunch of
pragmatic advice that some of
you will find helpful and some of you
will find offensive.
There's an earlier video on this channel
gonna give you the link to my own
earlier video that's called dealing with
disrespectful questions as if people ask
you questions posed questions are really
disrespectful to challenge you got a lot
of fan mail for the video I think that
you does contain helpful advice for all
of you including for this woman
artichoke however that video starts by
really tell you Who I am and why I
handle these situations in the way that
I do and then gives you examples of how
that works with young people viewed as
gives you a more general methodological
approach this here instead let's kind of
turnaround soviet art show I think the
most fundamental error she's making his
of thinking of all conversations as
activism a conversation is not activism
it's not and if you think of every
conversation you have his activism then
you're stuck in the trap of that
evangelical Christian who can't have a
casual conversation with the person
savings time on the airplane without
trying to save his soul right that's the
wrong approach activism is one thing
conversations human being is another you
do not have to testify you do not have
to present your faith you do not have to
justify your worldview in these
conversations of people as it is that's
a that may seem like a stupid point to
make but that's a really deep assumption
India obviously her attraction for both
social media are part of her frustration
so I don't know if you're taking every
year flippant remark on Facebook every
meal conversation as as as activism for
treating you that way of course you can
get burnt out second thing is there's a
difference between being sincere and
treating the other person's question as
sincere
the latter can really be a mistake you
know I said earlier video these people
are not asking for a one hour discourse
on animal rights not even if they say
they are as she complains there are ppl
challenger and they demand scientific
facts to back up everything she knows
these these organizations I've actually
had I actually see the people yeah
you're right what about huffing glue
what about getting high from sniffing
glue how do you know that's bad for you
can you prove it to me
scientifically can you in this
conversation right now walk me through
the etiology of how it is that getting
high from sniffing glue causes brain
damage I never look into it that much I
believe based on what I've read that I
know enough to make the decision not to
have clue how you if you want to you can
go to university library you can get
books off the shelf that will really
break down for you in detail
step-by-step biochemistry and you know
the whole history of the research how
this was discovered how the brain damage
from you can know that it's not
unknowable but I'm telling you I just
have enough information that I don't
sniff glue anyone in my life I care
about trying to get them to stop
sniffing glue I would never let my own
kids sniff glue yeah you know what I'm
I'm completely convinced that sniffing
glue is bad for you but no my dude I'm
not a neurosurgeon I'm not a
neurosurgeon another neuroscientist I'm
not gonna break down for you know why
and how sniffing glue destroys your
brain you know people who have these
justifications for eating meat the type
against diluting her video tape shows
you you can see them yeah you know what
you're right
you're right what about cocaine all the
justifications you've given for why you
can't give up eating meat
well you know the pleasure you get
eating meat do you really think that's
more or less than cocaine what what are
your reasons really for why you don't
use cocaine they can say whatever they
say he said you know what I don't think
that's the real reason I think the
reason why you do not want to do cocaine
is because you don't want to be a hit
you don't wanna be a crack it I think at
bottom the root of all this you want to
be a good person or you wanna think
you're so it was a good person doesn't
mean you regard someone is a terrible
person because they're using cocaine so
many famous artists singers rappers DMX
whatever so many famous people use
cocaine it's it's on the record but yeah
I'm on a really basic level of I have a
friend of mine of a co-worker at the
office and he uses cocaine I look at him
differently I think you'd look at me
differently I think even sure someone is
less trustworthy the less good they're
morally suspect you you would feel
differently about yourself if you work
ok so you don't do it because you want
to be a good person you know if you talk
to someone who cares but you little bit
their longtime friend family member or
co-worker you can also turn around and
use basically reverse Socratic method
and again you can see you know what
you're right now all your points you
don't whatever it is but the desert
island scientific reasoning evolution
whatever the point is you you know what
you're right so why do you think it
matters so much to all the points you
raised your right you know me you know
that's why do you think what you missed
me know if they're not that close to you
they see something insulting back you
can look him straight in the face oh
yeah you know what I must be a god damn
fool is that what it is
is that why you think I do this you know
what's the point of those conversations
the point is not free to exhaust
yourself the point is not to give them
one hour lecture on animal rights
the point is not activism you know any
of these people have access to the same
source information you do now with the
internet more than ever you don't even
have to go to a library right if they
wanted to know
hard facts they wouldn't be asking you
these questions and like I would compare
it to a me back when I was staying First
Nations that was working on creating a
JIP way these languages so indigenous
people of Canada what Americans call
american indians if somebody asked me
why are you studying for his nation's I
would not see them will you know this
happened in 1734 and then this event
happen in 1826 and you know article 12
of the RCA AP report says this that
level of factual analysis is irrelevant
to the question even if they're asking
for it you start playback this
conversation and again even if the
challenges of this is all well you know
I read this study about 25 percent
difference in the rate of cancer
something to say you know what you're
right you take it you know what hey I'm
so happy for you that you read some some
bullshit article needs now you tell me
why does it matter so much to me and I
can tell you i think it matters to you
for the same reasons I think you have
chosen not to be a crackhead for
fundamentally some of the same reasons
why I don't eat dead pigs we have
something in common there there's some
be sick moral sensibility there that our
lives are not just about indulging in
pleasure and certain types of pleasures
changed the way we think about ourselves
that we feel about ourselves you know
you know what scientific information is
confusing I don't really understand
exactly why
offering glue causes brain damage you
know breathing insolvent I don't know
why I know all over the world people get
addicted to it
people turn up at hospitals that you
brain scans damn scary if my own kid got
addicted to it if my own brother if
somebody I knew if my co-worker at the
office
god damn that's terrifying just sniffing
glue but I am I'm not a neuroscientist
that's not my role in life is to know it
in that kind of detail that's not really
what we're dealing with here right what
is it that they wanna know what's the
fundamental issue question of your
motivations it's a question of who you
are and that's why can't I encourage you
to say you can invite them in a kind of
Socratic way you can challenge them to
answer the question why do you think it
matters why do you think I do it if all
these things you say are true what do
you what do you think the core of the
issue is and again I mean when I was
staying First Nations that that's the
real issue in table doesn't matter what
the person says you what they really
want it was what motivates me to do the
work and it was exhausting work of
having a text book open and memorizing
the numbers 1 through 10 and the names
of the months and the word for spoon and
the word fur Fox
word for wolf like vocabulary is almost
infinite in any language there are so
many hours to go into studying a
language like that apart from the
history and the politics and all this
stuff so what what motivates you what
would motivate me to study that why do I
care right
the answer is not gonna be this kind of
particular fact again
fundamentally you have to be open-minded
nothing open heart in two separate to
look when I'm talking to you not I'm not
trying to testify I'm not trying to
convert you I'm not like that
evangelical preacher this is not
activism this is you and me I'm just
gonna be real with you and ultimately
your questions are not really about
they were built meet there about Who Am
I what do I believe and why do I believe
it and i cant say that that is what I'm
an expert on not brain chemistry not
cancer not
percentage of people get heart attacks
and not even from conditions I'm not the
world's greatest expert on Form
conditions I read some stuff and not my
field of expertise as with the glue
having I feel I know enough to make the
correct decision right but that's what
we're talking about Who Am I who are you
what motivates me to do what I do you
know really simple sense what you're
talking about is what is the meaning of
life what does it mean for you and need
to label good in meaningful life now and
when you speak to that it doesn't matter
how blunt
leave you are when you speak to that you
will not get burnt out you will not get
emotionally exhausted you will not get
dragged into the types of conflicts that
vegan artichoke complains have been
making your life miserable so mean thats
it that the secret to the whole riddle
ultimately is understanding the question
the real intent to the questioner and as
I like to say keeping it real